---
title: Falafel
slug: falafel
date: 2010-03-26
image: images/post/falafel.webp
categories: 
  - everyday cooking
  - the best
  - vegetarian
type: regular
tags: 
  - baby spinach
  - butter
  - chicory
  - egg
  - spring onion
  - ginger
  - yogurt
  - chickpea
  - garlic
  - cilantro seed
  - cumin
  - turmeric
  - low-fat curd cheese
  - mint
  - nutmeg
  - olive oil
  - orange
  - paprika powder
  - parsley
  - piment d'espelette
  - beetroot
  - breadcrumbs
  - lemon zest
---

Now the leftover chickpeas have to go and falafel comes to mind - at least if you leaf through Schuhbeck's famous book "Meine Küche der Gewürze" (My Kitchen of Spices) - even if the dish is called "Kichererbsenpflanzerl" (Chickpea Pancake) in cosmopolitan Bavarian. The recipe sounds good, but unfortunately there is no photo. We'll make up for it now.

First I prepare the chickpea mixture pretty much according to the original recipe

3 spring onions, finely chopped 
350 g chickpeas from the jar, mashed with the blitz chopper 
40 g low-fat quark (Schuhbeck: cream cheese) 
1 egg 
1.5 tablespoons bread crumbs (Schuhbeck: toast bread crumbs) 
1 large clove of garlic 
1 tsp grated ginger 
1 tbsp. parsley, finely chopped 
1 tsp. salt 
1/2 tsp. turmeric 
1/2 tsp paprika powder, sweet 
1/2 tsp. cilantro seeds, mortared 
1/2 tsp. cumin, mortared 
a pinch of Piment d'Espelette (Schuhbeck: mild chili flakes) 
freshly grated nutmeg 
some lemon peel, grated

Everything turns into the mixing bowl and kneads well with a fork. Perfect consistency!

Now I prepare another salad. I clean and chop

2 handfuls of baby spinach 
1 beet, grated 
1 chicory 
1 orange, filleted

Salad dressing and dip for the falafel:

2 sprigs of mint 
150 ml yogurt 
some olive oil 
the collected orange juice from filleting

Now you can fry the falafel in a coated pan. I take a good dash of olive oil for this and add a small piece of butter. The falafel dough I now formed into small thick talers, which I roll again in breadcrumbs (be careful, they are very crumbly) and then off into the pan with it. Fry on 2/3-stage for 3-4 minutes on each side until golden brown. During this time, I can dress the salad and pour the dip into small jars. It turned out a little thin, Schubeck wanted the firmer Greek. But taste-wise and color-wise everything fits together wonderfully!

> pile of small falafels, with salad, with orange fillets, photorealistic, award-winning photo, octane rendering, very detailed, long lens, depth of field

